40 to 60% of B2B purchase processes end
in no decision if you scratch on that
data the majority of those aren't saying
well I'm not making a decision to buy
something new because the old thing we
were doing is better that's not true at
all in fact the majority of those is
they couldn't figure out how to make a
choice confidently so what they did was
they just went to their boss and said
you know what now's not a good time
let's not do it now let's do it next
year we just we let just delay it
because that is the safe risk-free thing
for that person who's on the hook to
make the decision to
do today my guest is April Dunford April
is the world's foremost authority on
product positioning she's the author of
the bestselling book obviously awesome
which is my favorite book on positioning
and this is her second time on the
podcast because she just published a new
book called sales pitch which Builds on
her 25-year career as vpf marketing and
adviser to to companies like Google and
epic games and many others the book
guides you through a better way to pitch
and sell your product and inner
conversation April shares the framework
that she has seen work most often in
getting potential customers to get
excited about your product and to decide
to buy your product like I say at the
top of this episode you will become
better at pitching and selling your
product by the end of this episode and
if that's useful to you which it should
be this episode is for you with that I
bring you April Dunford after a short
word from our
sponsors this episode is brought to you
by composer the AI power trading
platform now with retirement accounts
algorithmic trading has historically
been reserved for the hedge fund Elite
now with composer you can automate your
trading with a library of over 1,000
strategies that are easy to understand
and tweak using an AI assistant and
visual editor composer is the first ever
algorithmic trading platform where you
don't need any coding experience it
includes a full range of trading
indicators for you to get creative and a
Discord community of 2500 traders to
discuss your ideas with composer also
has a powerful back tester to see the
historical performance of your
strategies and you can then invest with
a single click once you invest composer
will automatically trade for you based
on the logic of your strategy with $1
billion in trading volume and over 1
million trades executed composer already
has many BigTime investors using the
platform regularly head to composer.
trade and use the code Lenny for an
extra week of free trial on your
composer membership that's composer.
trade this episode is brought to you by
EPO EPO is a Next Generation AB testing
platform built by airb Lums from Modern
growth teams companies like DraftKings
zappier clickup twitch and Cameo rely on
EPO to power their experiments wherever
you work running experiments is
increasingly essential but there are no
commercial tools that integrate with a
modern grow team stack this leads to
waste of time building inter internal
tools or trying to run your own
experiments through a clunky marketing
tool when I was at Airbnb one of the
things that I loved most about working
there was our experimentation platform
where I was able to slice and dice data
by device types country user stage EPO
does all that and more delivering
results quickly avoiding annoying
prolonged analytic cycles and helping
you easily get to the root cause of any
issue you discover EPO lets you go
beyond basic clickthrough metrics and
instead use your Northstar metrics like
activation retention subscription and
payments EPO supports test on the front
end on the back end email marketing even
machine learning claims check out EPO
ato.com that's geo.com and 10x your
experiment
velocity April thank you so much for
being here welcome back to the podcast
it's so great to be back we were talking
about this earlier but it feels like it
was so long ago when I did the last one
like I was one of the first guests and I
feel like man you've been running this
thing forever and it's and that was like
a year
ago it feels like a lifetime but it was
about a year ago but what you've done
with it is amazing right like the growth
in it and everything else like it's
super inspirational thanks April I
appreciate
that it's true though like I think
everybody looks at your stuff and goes
what the heck how does he do it the
secret is a lot of work yes that's the
gutr quick scheme
there nobody wants to hear that you yeah
but it's work that's extremely
fulfilling and we get to chat again and
you are a very rare return guest which
makes me very happy and the reason
you're back is you've written an
incredible new book which I have right
here if you're on YouTube called sales
pitch so cool there it is and it's in
your background too it's like a
Inception the book is called sales pitch
how to craft a story to stand out and
win and we're going to be spending our
time today digging into all the lessons
and Frameworks in the book as much as we
can in the hour that we have and my goal
for this conversation is for listeners
to leave this podcast with better skills
at pitching and selling their product
which I think every product leader and
founder will want to do and get better
at how does that sound that sounds great
okay sweet I was thinking as a way to
get into the conversation we start with
maybe a story or an example of a company
that you worked with where you applied
the Frameworks and lessons that you
teach in the book and then use that as
kind of a jumping off point for digging
in for
yeah sure so my background is I do
positioning work and so in the work that
I do with clients you know generally
what we're working on is a shift in the
positioning which is you know a little
bit of a shift in our thinking around
how do we win in the market so in order
to test that positioning what we want to
do is take the positioning and translate
it into a sales pitch and then test it
live with prospects and one of the
things I noticed right at the beginning
of doing this work is that everybody's
sales pitch kind of looked the same
and they weren't all that
great and for the most part what the
what was happening in the sales pitch is
there was no positioning going on in the
sales pitch at all the sales pitch was
essentially a product Exposition so you
know essentially a glorified product box
room like if there was five drop- down
menus we're going to click on all five
drop- down menus and show everybody
everything just Feature Feature Feature
Feature Feature and so most of the teams
weren't used to doing any kind of like
pitching in the pitch really it was just
a you know just the facts Jacks we're
just going to show you that some would
do like this really lightweight thing
like you know here's the problem we're
the solution now let me walk you through
all the drop- down menus but you know is
basically the same thing like that and
so what I wanted to do was build a pitch
structure that would reflect the
positioning and so in order to do that
we we have to get a little bit into
storytelling mode not a lot but at least
a little and when we're talking about
features we shouldn't be talking about
features we be should be talking about
the value that the features deliver so
let me give you an example and I'll do
before and after what this would look
like um so I work with these folks help
Scout and so they're in the customer
service space so think zenes or you know
whatever they're in that space and
what's interesting about them is they
were built from the ground up to serve
digital businesses so businesses that
don't have a physical store they don't
have sales reps and
so their approach to customer service
was different like right from the outset
help Scouts said well you know what
customer service for that kind of
business is really important it's the
only time you ever get to interact with
actual customers and so you know the
data shows that if you give them a
really great interaction in service it
improves loyalty it improves repeat
purchases and it's actually a growth
driver now most folks in other
Industries see customer service as a
cost center so you know your telephone
company for example wants to get you off
the phone as fast as possible and they
want to push you to the self-serve FAQ
channels and they don't care about
giving you a good service at all because
you know they they don't care about any
of that and and so they're all about
driving the cost down so if we look at
help Scout in their positioning the
alternatives to help Scout are a handful
of things like most folks start using a
shared inbox so and it's really easy to
use and the Reps love it it's easy to
use the problem is is you start growing
and then you want to do you want
customer service features like you want
to be able to do assignments and
prioritization and things like that so
then these customers end up upgrading to
help this software and now they're in
this whole different world right so the
first thing is really hard to use so the
you know we're not in shared inbox
territory anymore and the second thing
is that you know there's this attitude
of we're trying to push folks to lowcost
channels we don't really care about them
we're going to sign you at ticket number
you know you're not a person anymore all
this stuff so that's the situation so
hell Scout if they did a typical pitch
the way I see most SAS companies pitch
they would just expose the features
right so the pitch would look like this
digital business comes in and they say
hi we're helps coat let me show you how
to log in let me show you all the
features look there's a shared inbox
thing there that's really great oh look
you know we can do assignments and
prioritization and we can do this other
thing and we can do this other thing and
la la la la and I keep going until the
time runs out and I don't have any more
features to talk about the problem with
that pitch is the customer sitting there
going I don't know man like that sounds
a little bit like my shared
inbox but it also sounds like help
software like is it different than help
software I'm not so sure and like
there's overlap in the features there
and so it doesn't really answer the
question why pick us over the other guys
and so a different style of pitch would
be one we would do a little bit of setup
to give everybody an idea about how we
fit amongst all the other Solutions and
what our point of view is in the market
and then when we get to exploring the
features we would do that within the
context of the differentiated value so
here's how that pitch would look like
customer comes in and help Scout says
Hey digital business uh you know we work
with a lot of companies like you and I'm
going to show you the product but before
we get there one of the things we think
is interesting is that digital
businesses look at customer service
differently they look at it as a growth
driver rather than a cost center and so
you you know most of the folks we work
with see delivering a really amazing
experience as like a key part of
customer service would you agree with
that yeah we would you know they have a
little conversation and then they say
great you have choices here right so
most of the folks we work with start
with a shared inbox and that's great
because it's really easy really easy to
use all that stuff the problem is is if
you're growing and you probably are then
you're going to outgrow that because
you're going to need prioritizations
assignments help that stuff and so then
your option is to go to help software
and so help Des software is great like
it does all the things the problem is
that it was not designed for businesses
like you it was designed for businesses
that want to take the cost out of of
customer service so it's going to do
some things that are weird right it's
going to assign your customers a ticket
number and it's you know it's going to
try to drive them to lowcost channels so
can we agree that in a perfect world for
digital Business Like Yours we'd want
something as easy to use as a help desk
but had all the bells and whistles so we
wouldn't have to migrate to something
else and on top of that was built from
the ground up to deliver amazing
customer service do we agree we want
that now at that point the customer is
either with you or you're not right but
if they are then we switch to the the
actual demo part if we do a demo and
then we sayg great we've got those three
things let me show you how that works so
one as easy to use as an inbox look
here's the inbox it's so easy to use
looks just like an inbox it's amazing
two feature so you never have to outgrow
it look here's how we do prioritizations
assignments whatever we can do all the
stuff you need as you grow and you're
never going to have to switch platforms
and then last one deliver an amazing
experience look the customer gets to
choose which channel that they interact
with you with and look they get to stay
Dave and not ticket number 1479 that
sort of thing so that's how the pitch
looks in the after but that's a really
different pitch like that pitch is
designed to answer the question why pick
us over the other folks and so as you
might imagine it is a lot more effective
at actually getting clients to get their
head around what is this thing why is it
different why should I pick you and it
just works way better in a sales
situation awesome so just to maybe
summarize the framework because you went
through each of these pieces and I think
it might be helpful to give people the
kind of steps and uh I have them here
but maybe it might be better for you to
kind of through yeah so you can think of
it is so first of all the pitch
structure has two big pieces so the
first is the setup the setup piece is
not about us it's about the market and
our point of view on the market the
second bit is all about our
differentiated value so why pick us over
the other guys so we those pieces aren't
equal like in a normal sales pitch
situation we don't want to spend all day
in this the setup part like we want to
get to the meat which is our
differentiated value but we can't skip
that bit so if I've got a half hour call
or 45 minute call maybe I spend a few
minutes on this upfront this upfront
stuff is really important though and we
can break The Upfront into three pieces
so it starts with our insight into the
market so this is you could think of
this as our point of view on the market
or kind of like the problem inside the
problem in some ways so in help Scout's
case Insight is hey customer service is
just different for digital businesses
and and this is really a growth driver
not a cost center so we need to think
about customer service in a different
way that's their Insight so we start
with that the second piece is pluses and
minuses of alternative Solutions what we
want to do is paint a picture of the
entire market and talk about what's good
and bad of the other ways of approaching
the job and then out of that
conversation we have a conclusion which
is what I call perfect world but just
kind of like can we agree that if we
really wanted to solve this problem and
knowing what what works it doesn't work
in the alternate Solutions can we agree
really good Solutions should tick these
boxes this is getting the customer
aligned with your worldview if they're
aligned then we switch to the follow
through the follow through has a handful
of steps but the main step is this
differentiated value step so usually
what we'd start with is an introduction
hey we're help Scout you know we do
customer service stuff specifically for
dig businesses and then we would move on
to here's the value we deliver here's
how we do it here's the value we deliver
here's how we do it here's the value we
deliver here's how we do it we generally
end the sales pitch with a couple of
little steps so one is after we talk
about the value generally there's a step
for proof which is how can we prove that
we do what we say we can do which is
often a customer case study or it might
be independent third party verification
on stuff but usually there's a proof
step there's an optional step after that
which is handling objections that
haven't come up during the call so
sometimes we'll have a silent objection
like yeah that sounds really good but it
sounds really hard to adopt or yeah that
sounds really good but it's probably
pretty expensive or you know yeah that's
okay but it probably doesn't meet our
needs for security or whatever and so we
handle that at the end in this special
objections step and then we end the
pitch with what I call the ask which is
whatever we want the customer to do next
so you know it could be just asking for
the sale or it could be hey we want to
do a proof of concept let's you know who
do we who do we need to talk to about
that or hey we're going to do a project
let's how who needs to be involved in
defining the project whatever the next
step is in your um sales process that's
how we end is with
askk cool I wanted to actually talk
about objections because I imagine going
through this companies often don't agree
with what you're saying and I wonder how
you handle that so you're going in this
like do you agree and yeah the silent
objection is really interesting I even
think about that where they're just like
they're not they're just like yeah yeah
yeah we agree but they don't really
agree how would you suggest people
handle them being like no I don't
actually see the world that way or the
silent objection which I guess is like
something you say for the end typically
when we're starting with Insight our
insight into the market if we're doing
this well the Insight is generally not
all that
controversial so you could think of it
this way so it's it's kind of the reason
you built what you built so most
Founders when you talk to them like they
didn't just come up with the idea out of
nowhere they woke up in the morning and
said you know what sucks about email
this thing sucks about email and so I'm
going to build this different kind of
email that solves that problem or in the
case of help Scout it's like do you know
what sucks about customer service it
just wasn't built for these kinds of
businesses and so if you've got a point
of view on the world and you're talking
to a customer that just fundamentally
doesn't agree with that so like in the
case of help Scout they come in and they
say no actually it's a cost center for
us like we're just trying to get the
cost down they should disqualify that
deal because they can't serve that
customer better than zenes does zenes is
going to win that deal but if you've
done this properly your Insight should
resonate for the Target account that
you're trying to go after now that
doesn't mean there aren't going to be
other objections and usually there's all
kinds of other objections but the
objections are more on a level of you
know if I can get you hooked at the
beginning in this setup then we go to
the value which is just proving I can do
we already agreed we wanted to get done
then the objections tend to be more like
operational stuff like yeah this sounds
good but I don't know if we can afford
it or this sounds good but boy we're
going to have to migrate off the old
thing or whatever so mentally they're
kind of sold already but they're worried
about well what's it gonna say and you
know can I actually get budget about
this and in B2B we've got this this
network of people that we've got to go
get agreement from to move forward on
this thing and so often there's
objections around that the beginning of
the sales pitch thing one more thing on
that is that part of what we're doing in
that setup is what salese would call
Discovery and so that setup part should
not be me talking at you like it should
be a conversation between me and the
client saying do you agree with this
like is this what you're seeing like did
you start with a shared inbox what are
you doing right now like did you ever
consider using help Des software why yes
why no what do you have any constraints
on what you're looking at like what have
you tried before what are you looking at
trying right now this is part of the
discovery that we do in a first
substantive sales call that your sales
reps would know how to do this typically
one of the things we don't have in in in
in the pitch Decks that I see in SAS
companies is there's no good place to do
this discovery so it kind of happens
outside of the structure of the pitch in
this pitch structure there's a definite
spot for Discovery so by the time we get
to the end of the setup we should either
be aligned like Yep this looks like a
good Prospect for us yep we can do
something yep they got a problem we can
solve this all looks good or we kind of
jointly come to the conclusion hey this
just our stuff just ain't for you
man and that's it and I I imagine a lot
of this comes from doing this enough
times you get to understand how like
where people generally agree like this
is a problem we all know this is our
problem right and it's unlikely that
you're going to it's going to you're
going to have to throw everything out
because someone just decides no this
isn't for us
yeah I think one of the biggest shifts
maybe from this framework is that you go
into like a teaching mindset it's not
just like here's our product it's going
to solve your problem at more here's
what's happening broadly you maybe you
don't have the time to do the research
we've done here's what we found and then
that builds trust I think in you as a
company and as a leader as a salesperson
and then they're like okay see they see
the world the way we do or I've just
like realize something new I never
thought of it that way and then okay
cool how do they think about the
solution to this right like what one of
the key things to think about in all of
this stuff that I I think we don't think
about enough as software vendors is that
you know customers will come to us and
they've done their homework right
they've they've Googled around and
they've looked at stuff but that doesn't
mean they have perfect understanding of
the market in fact it's usually far from
it if we think about it most of the
folks in B2B software most of the time
your buyer has never purchased software
like yours before this is the first time
they've done it and their boss has
comeing to them and said hey figure this
out like go find us a CRM and go you
know look at all the crms and figure it
out and and the buyer is looking at it
going geez I don't know man like there's
a lot of crms out there and I'm looking
at all the things I'm on G2 crowd and
there's 24 crms in the top right corner
and I'm looking at Gardener group and
I'm looking at this thing and I am
actually doing my research but I'm
overwhelmed what I don't have is a clear
picture of the market like what are the
different approaches to this problem
like forget about products like what are
the approach Roes to the problem where
do the products fit in those approaches
what's a good solution for me look like
what should be my purchase criteria like
that's really hard for buyers to figure
out and in general in a sales process
we're not doing anything to help the
buyer figure that out even though we
know it we eat sleep and breed this
Market we spend all day looking at
competitors and thinking about this
stuff and whatever but we've got this
idea well we shouldn't do this because
you know first of all we can't talk
about the other guys because that we'd
be seen as bashing our competition and
that's bad right the other thing is even
if we did give our opinion nobody would
trust us because we're biased but if you
look at the research on this stuff the
research doesn't support that like the
research actually says what B2B software
buyers want in a sales interaction is
perspectives on the market and help
weighing their options and we don't do
that we're just like here's our stuff
you figure it out it's up to you you
figure it out and so as a result what we
get are these buyers come in they're
overwhelmed with all this information
they come in and they they sit in our
sales process and we overwhelm them even
more with more features and more
information and what they're really
worried about is what if I make a bad
choice here because I've never done this
before and I'm gonna have to recommend
to my boss and if I make the wrong
suggestion to my boss maybe my boss
thinks I'm stupid or maybe I buy
something and the whole department hates
me because it's awful to use or maybe I
pick something and it's just bad
software and then bad things happen for
the business maybe I get
fired and so the data on this shows that
for B2B 40 to 60% of B2B purchase
processes end in no
decision and then when you look at if
you scratch on that data the majority of
those aren't saying well I'm not making
a decision to buy something new because
the old thing we were doing is better
that's not true at all in fact the
majority of those is they couldn't
figure out how to make a choice
confidently so what they did was they
just went to their boss and said you
know what now's not a good time let's
not do it now let's do it next year we
just we just just delay it because that
is the safe risk-free thing for that
person who's on the hook to make the
decision to do I think this is one of
the most interesting insights that you
share in your book and you also share
this in the newsletter post about how
buying software is You could argue is
harder than selling it because people
have learned their skills and training
for selling but buying is this as as you
described extremely stressful like
basically your job's online if you make
a mistake is there anything more you can
share along those lines just like to
help reinforce that buying software is
extremely hard and stressful and people
don't understand that once you sort of
get into that mindset I I think then you
look at the situation a lot different
like I think we've seen the statistics
on this that said is you know the buyer
is 80% of the way through their buying
journey by the time they talk to your
sales rep yeah maybe but they might be
80% of the way to saying nope I'm not
buying nothing and in fact that's true
60% of the time and so how do we combat
that like the way we combat that is not
just talking about ourselves it's
actually about trying to be helpful to
that person in this very stressful
situation that is trying to figure out
how do I make a really good decision so
what we should be doing is giving them a
way to think about the whole market and
say look like you know in the case of
help Scout look there's there's shared
inbox and then there's help Des software
and then there's us and and and I don't
care who the vendor is I'm G to put them
in one of those
buckets and so you can just think of it
that way you don't need to know every
single feature every single thing I'm
giving you a bigger picture of the whole
market and helping you feel good well if
you choose this or you choose that now
you know why I think it's a interesting
about this is a lot of startups fail
because they can't convince anyone to
switch from the status quo and I think
people always think of that as the
current product is good enough and
that's why they're losing but I think
this adds an additional wrinkle of it's
also the person buying it is just like I
don't I don't I don't want to add the
stress to even decide and make the
choice and put my butt on the line to
switch and I never thought of it that
way yeah like I like I think that hurdle
is a lot more than you think right so we
obviously have to compete with status
quo like we Can't Ignore status quo
because sometimes status quo just is
good enough you know and and so we can't
ignore that we still lose deals to
status quo but we lose an awful lot of
deals to just plain customer indecision
customers being more afraid of screwing
up than missing
out so to try to overcome that to drill
into the things you find most powerful
one is help the customer understand the
bigger picture and why it's why
essentially they're falling behind why
maybe competition is going to have an
advantage because they're using thinking
in a different way well I'll throw
something out about that please so so
and I've heard people talk about this a
lot um that you know one of the things
we could do in this situation when a
customer is feeling this indecision is
to kind of lean into this fomo and say
look your missing out like the
competitors are all doing it and you're
not doing it and so this is an
interesting question question and so I
was super excited Matt Dixon wrote this
book called The jolt effect and in that
they they studied two and a half million
sales calls that recorded on gong and
they studied it with AI and then they
looked at what happened after the sales
call so were these successful or not
successful did a deal happen or whatever
it's pretty rare that we get a chance to
like dig into some data like this and so
what his data showed is if a customer is
indecisive throwing fomo into the mix
makes it
worse so they are less likely to close
the deal if you throw that in and the
the idea is that they're already
stressed
out and you're just putting more stress
on them by pressuring them by saying oh
this is bad things are gonna you know
you know you're like ah bad things will
happens if I do something bad things
happens if I don't something ah what do
I do they just put their head in the
sand right they're just like I forget it
so they're just like forget it I'm doing
nothing now I'm totally paralyzed and so
so there's an assumption that companies
are very motivated by this fomo thing
but I think that that is not always true
and if the customer is actually
indecisive throwing in this fomo thing
isn't going to do it so what does work
in that situation is one giving them the
tools to make the decision so that
includes painting the picture of the
market teaching them how to buy
essentially so teaching them look for
customers like you you just have to
worry about these three four things and
all this other stuff that doesn't apply
to you that applies to bigger companies
that applies to whatever so this idea of
teaching a customer how to buy is one
way to take that stress down and then
there's a whole bunch of other
techniques you can use so one is you
know you could if it's a really big deal
we can split it into smaller pieces we
can do things like offer you a money
back guarantee we can do things like
sometimes we have services and support
that are going to help you if things go
bad and this is how we're going to make
sure so this idea of being able to take
risk off the table is a really serious
one if we've got a customer that is
actually paralyzed because of this
indecision thing that makes a lot of
sense basically it's like how do we help
the buyer cover their ass if they made a
mistake because what you're saying is
that's the main reason they're not
buying this FAL thing is just not going
to do it so interesting so I really like
this framework I wrote this down
teaching them how to buy that is a
really simple way of just thinking about
this whole process well you know it's
funny I was having this conversation
with um Bob mea you know he's said jobs
to be done yeah I watched that episode
yeah so he so so he's just the best and
so so one of the things I think of is
like normally when we come at this we're
like well how can we convince the
customer that we do the job that they
need to have done and obviously we need
to do that but there is this kind of
secondary job that the champion of the
deal is and that's how do I make a
decision without getting
fired and so we got to help them
accomplish that job otherwise we don't
get what we want which is the money it's
so interesting and it's not even like
necessarily get fired it's like even
their performance suffers or they don't
get their promotion it's like yeah like
did they do a good job and this makes me
think of a process that everyb be we
went through to buy Community Forum
software and I just remember these like
massive teams of salespeople comeing to
the office and pitching everyone on the
software and I was and they just keep
like pushing you to make like what's the
next step here who who do we need to
roll in who needs to buy into I was just
like oh my God it's so stressful I have
to like
keep this thing moving and then there's
it coming in like oh we got to make sure
it integrates with Salesforce and like
you start with I just one of the best
community form software because we're
trying to build something really
different and unique and you end up with
like okay it's fine let's just go with
the thing that works with Salesforce
it's all good I'm just gonna move on to
another well this is the thing it's so
easy to default to the market leader in
that situation like the market leader
has this big advantage that you can say
you know what who's going to who's going
to get me in trouble for picking sales
force nobody right like it's so easy to
just flip back on that and so if you're
the Challenger in this
situation the brand that's number two or
number three like you've got to get over
all of this inertia and and tilting
towards the status quo because it's just
so easy it's the lowest risk decision
besides do nothing is to just pick the
leader in the market we'll just run with
that yeah I think the classic phrase was
no one gets fired for buying Microsoft I
wonder if it's like is it Salesforce now
what's the default verion that now yeah
the original one was IBM no oh I think
you're right oh man now you totally get
fired for buying IBM I don't know I
don't know what
happens the other thing you bring up is
I think an interesting thing to think
about too that really messes people up
in these situations is that in B2B
typical purchase process we have five to
seven people involved in making the deal
happen and so there's this complexity we
don't have a consumer right but a lot of
people I think over complicate that like
in a typical B2B purchase process we've
got someone in that buying team is what
we would call the champion so that
person is the person who's been tasked
with hey pick us the accounting software
pick us the CRM you you figur it out and
so that person is the person that does
the initial research makes the short
list probably sits on the first calls
and then there's all these other people
now the other people can't make a deal
happen but they can kill it a thousand
ways so the way this works is you have
to your positioning and your pitch needs
to really work for the
champion because if it doesn't you don't
even get to talk to anybody else like
you don't even get to go near anybody
else we don't make it on the short list
and you don't get to deal cooking but
once the deal is cooking it is on you to
arm that champion to handle all the
objections potentially of all the other
groups so you know so if you're the line
of business buyer let's say you're in
the sales department and you're buying a
CRM
it is going to have to get involved at
some point and it doesn't really care
about the value of your CRM but they do
care does it meet the security
requirements does it integrate with the
stuff we already have and how much of a
pain is this thing going to be to manage
and so we're not actually pitching value
to those people we're just handling
objections and so once we realize that
then we can get really tight on our
positioning and our sales pitch like
what we're really trying to do is just
cook the champion get the champion and
then once the deal's going we got to arm
the champion for how to handle all these
objections of all these other groups so
that you can get a consensus to get a
deal moving forward how do you actually
do that is it ask them what are all the
concerns you're hearing is it ask the
individual stakeholders what are your B
concern if we're really smart we already
know because we've done lots of deals
right so if we're being a good partner
in this you know we're in sometimes even
in the very first meeting we're saying
hey look you know in that spot where
we're talking about objetives we're
gonna say Hey look it is going to come
in and they're going to be worried about
this this and this and don't worry we
got you right so you know we're sock to
compliant we do this we do that we know
because we've done 15 deals and we know
what these deals are like and we know
what they're what the stuff is going to
be you might have the champion come in
and say well I don't know you know end
users might not like it and it's like
okay well here's how we're going to get
your end users on board this is the
training we have this is the stuff we're
going to do the neat thing if you have a
product like growth thing on the front
end of that it takes that objection off
the table but um you know and you might
have other things like you know you're
going to take this to your boss and
they're going to want to know Roi
numbers and blah blah blah and we've
already done that look here's our
calculator you know if you give us this
information we can put this in here's
how you sell your boss so that's what
we're doing we're trying to arm them
because we've done a million deals
they've never bought software like this
before so half the time you'll be doing
deals and they don't even know what the
purchase process is and so you know if
we're being good partners we're like
okay does this need to go to purchasing
and they'll say yeah it probably does oh
well you know here's what typically
happens in purchasing they're going to
do this this this and we're going to
give you this stuff and that's going to
help you get it through purchasing the
way you're describing it now makes it um
feel like you need to be a big company
for this to be useful because smaller
companies don't have all these reps and
they may not have the resources to do
all these things you're describing who
is this framework useful for can you use
this approach if you're just say like an
early stage B2B that well so it's B2B
products if you don't have a sales team
like if you don't have a sales team I
still think you can use this structure
to build a story that marketing can use
and you can use in different ways we
could talk about that but in the
companies that I work with they're B2B
they've got a sales team and so the
immediate thing we're doing is we're
making a shift in positioning we're
building a sales pitch that reflects
that positioning we can immediately
Implement that in sales even though it's
going to take a while for us to forklift
the messaging and do other stuff and
change our campaigns and everything else
to match this new positioning but we can
tighten up the sales pitch and have an
immediate impact over in sales on that
second thing is that I've worked with
tons of companies where it's you know
the founder is the only sales
rep and this works pretty good for that
I don't think we need a ton of resources
to do it but I do think we need to have
enough Traction in the market that we
understand how a deal typically goes so
if we haven't sold anything yet then we
don't know yet it's hard for us to help
you buy something and we don't even know
how to sell it but if I've done 10 deals
I know what happens I know what I I got
a pretty good guess of what it is going
to say when you try to implement this
stuff I have a good guess what's going
to happen when we go to roll it out I
have a pretty good guess of what your
boss might object to or might get
excited by and so I don't necessarily
need you know a research team to go
figure this out this is just me trying
to be helpful and help the champion do
their job of getting this deal to the
finish line so maybe the MVP of this
approach is a deck that you continue
iterating and adjust and
restructure and also bullet points of
things you want to bring up like okay
cool it is going to ask for these things
few bullet points that you kind of keep
track of exactly I'm also thinking from
the perspective of a product team
building a product they don't really
sell it themselves they work with sales
they work with marketing is there
anything that you would recommend or
that you think product teams could learn
from this approach of selling that would
help them build products in a different
way way or work with sales in a
different way yeah so so here's what I
think
like the core of a good sales pitch is
really deeply understanding your
differentiated value which is what is
the value I can deliver that no other
solution can often what I see at
companies is you got a smart product
team and they know a lot about the stuff
they're building and why it's important
and what the value is to the customer
and they did all this work on that when
they were building it but that
information never made the J to
sales because sales isn't even trying to
pitch value they're just pitching
features like here's the drop down
venues here's what they do and so so the
first step in in fixing this I think um
is to have a cross functional team work
on positioning so if I've got product
marketing and sales together in the room
working on defining what our
differentiated value is then I'm going
to get all the good juice out of the
product team that deeply understands the
product deeply understand what's
different differentiated about it deeply
understands value and then I'm also
going to have the all the juice from the
sales team that understands what the
common objections are you know what what
the champion really wants to get done
and doesn't want to get done what the
situation is in a typical account and
then all of this cool information
sharing happens which actually you end
up with way better definition of your
differentiated value in the first place
and so once we've done that work it is
very natural for us to work together on
the sales pitch that reflects that what
typically happens is not that at all
what typically happens is products
working on some stuff sales working on
some stuff marketing's working on some
stuff Marketing in their own little
bubble comes up with positioning they
might build some stuff for the sales
team heave it over to the sales team
sales team looks at it and says I don't
get what any of this stuff is I disagree
with this this doesn't match what I see
and they just throw it out and they go
back to doing the same pitch they've
been doing since the year of the
flood
it's a long time so our first podcast
episode was all around positioning and
so folks want to get deep into that they
should listen to that so we're not going
to spend tons of time there but
differentiated value is a big part of
this process also so I think it's worth
spending a bit of time here could you
maybe share a couple examples of like
what this is to give people a sense of
like what does it mean to be to share
differentiated value yeah so
differentiated value is kind of the
answer to the question why pick us over
the other Alternatives and so the way we
get at that in positioning is we start
with you know putting a stake in the
ground of who do we actually compete
with and so you know if we didn't exist
in the market what would a customer do
and so typically there's some status quo
thing it might not even look like you it
might just be a spreadsheet or do it
with the intern or manual labor and then
there's whatever else ends up on a short
list against us and it's basically the
definition of you know I got to beat all
this plus indecision in order to win
deal so I can stick my Stak in the
ground sales knows the answer of this
question if you have a sales team they
know the answer of this question like
you know what would a customer do if we
didn't exist they know and then we get
to the next step is well so what do we
have that's different and that's
capability wise feature function of the
product or capability of the company so
it could be features it could be your
pricing model it could be we have
support in a way that the other folks
don't so there's all kinds of things it
could be it could be the breadth of the
portfolio that you have beyond that one
product we can fill White sports with
this stuff and then what we do is we go
down that list of features and we say so
what so you know you got Advanced AI
whatever the heck the thing is so what
why does anybody care and the answer to
that so what is your value and and
because it came from this differentiated
feature it's generally value that the
other guys can't deliver because they
don't have the capabilities that deliver
to that underpin it so if I give you an
example um
so company I worked with a few years
back they recently been acquired by a
Salesforce called level jump and so
they're in the sales enablement space
which is terrible there's a million
companies in the sales enablement space
and they all kind of look the same and
so level jump you know so if you look at
well you know what's the competitive
Alternatives if I look at all the
companies in the sales enablement space
you can kind of put them into two
buckets in terms of approaches they're
either a CMS like a jazzy content
repository where you can make sure that
people are using the right content and
whatever or they're an LMS a learning
management system which you know I can
build a course and certify you on the
course and that's how we're going to
train the sales reps if you look at
level jump they differentiated
capability is they're the only one
that's built on top of Salesforce that's
the feature you know we're built on
Salesforce the other folks aren't and
then but who cares like so
what and so when we first had a
conversation about it that you know
there was five or six different answers
to that so what question but the big
answer was well because we're built on
top of Salesforce my my sales enablement
data is integrated with my sales data
and then you say well so what about that
well because then that means if I can
actually tell did the sales enablement
improve time to First deal or improve
time to make quota well so what about
that well if I improve that ramp time
then we get way more Revenue
faster so that's the differentiated
value when I go to do that in a sales
pitch I can translate that into my
insight my insight is every day your
rep's not making quota cost you money so
if we really want to solve sales
enablement don't we really want to have
something where we can measure whether
or not the sales enablement is working
with sales metrics yeah we do
interesting so the differentiated value
often informs the Insight that it does
start with it absolutely is like that
the Insight is basically the context
that makes your differentiated value
important like what is the thing you
need to know to understand the
importance of my differentiated value in
the case of help Scout the Insight is
look digital businesses like customer
services growth driver where does that
come from like if you look at their
differentiated value it's there and so
we can just reverse it flip it around
even if the product wasn't necessarily
constructed with that Insight maybe we
got there sideways or the roundabout way
or whatever we iterated our way into
that we can look at the differentiated
value and then basically reverse it out
to the Insight what's a sign that the
differentiated value or Insight that
you've come up with just isn't clicking
if the differentiated value doesn't work
in a sales pitch what you'll get is the
company going why would I pay for
that yeah like that's is not value for
me
buddy yeah like the way I look at it is
you know the companies I work with the
way I look at it is if you're in
market and you're selling and and you
have happy engaged customers there's
differentiated value there that's why
they picked you that's why they love you
that's why they don't turn out on you
it's there you might not know what it is
we might have to you know we might have
to do a little process to get at it but
it's there and it exists awesome another
question that's been in the back of my
mind since we started talking about
differentiated value is just how how
honest should you be about the
competition viously there's a spectrum
of extremely honest to like super biased
what's your guidance on just like how
honest to be there I mean the posture I
think you should assume in a in a sales
situation is I had old boss used to talk
about this is the posture we should have
is calm confidence so the where that
calm confidence comes from is we really
understand why people should pick us so
this differentiated value we really
understand it and we really understand
who that's a really good fit for and we
don't even bother trying to chase
anybody else so we should be able to
come in and say look we're sales
enablement that delivers results if you
don't care about those results you
shouldn't pick us you should pick
someone
else and so generally what we're trying
to be is extremely honest so we're
trying to come in and actually give
credit where credit is due with the
other approaches because typically the
other approaches work just fine for
other kinds of companies like if you're
really small and you're not growing
e-commerce business use a shared inbox
it's free it's easy to use there's
there's no problems there just use it
right if you're really worried about
bringing the cost down in a customer
service center maybe you should use
zendesk like and so I think the more we
can be we can act as a guide in this
situation and and come in and say look
like these guys are good for this these
folks are good for this and we're good
for this and you might not care about
that and if you don't care about that
we're not the one for you you shouldn't
pick us but I think that what you know
this calm confidence idea is that where
we know the client should pick us we
should be unafraid to fight for that
business but we should totally walk away
from business where we're not the best
fit we shouldn't be chasing that
business at all and this comes back to
teaching them how to buy again and again
yeah for these cases where you're like
this is not AIT ideally you know that
before you like fly to their office and
Pitch them yeah like generally you've
had some kind of qualification happen
upstream and so that qualification could
be done in lots of different ways like
if it's if you got some kind of product
like growth Motion in the beginning
you're looking for signals in that and
if the signals aren't there then you're
not talking to them and so you know if
you if you've designed your signals
right then you already know there's
intent there you already know you're a
fit you already know stuff the way a lot
of companies do this is they'll have
inside Sal sales do a qualification call
before they set up a first call with a
sales rep in that qualification call
you're trying to make sure you know is
this the right person do they have a
need that we can actually meet is this
actually a good fit for what we do and
if they're not they don't even make it
to the
call imagine a place where you can find
all your potential customers and get
your message in front of them in a cost
efficient way if you're a B2B business
that place exists and it's called
LinkedIn LinkedIn ads allows you to
build a relationships Drive results and
reach your customers in a respectful
environment two of my portfolio
companies webflow and census are
LinkedIn success stories census had a
10x increase in Pipeline with a LinkedIn
startup team for web flow after ramping
up on LinkedIn in Q4 they had the
highest marketing Source Revenue quarter
to dat with LinkedIn ads you'll have
direct access to and can build
relationships with decision makers
including 950 million members 180
million senior execs and over 10 million
SE Lev Executives you'll be able to
drive results with targeting and
measurement tools built specifically for
B2B in Tech LinkedIn generated a 2 to 5x
higher return on ad spend than any other
social media platforms audiences on
LinkedIn have two times the buying power
of the average web audience and you'll
work with a partner who respects the B2B
world you operate in make B2B marketing
everything it can be and get $100 credit
on your next campaign just go to
linkedin.com slod Lenny to claim your
credit that's linkedin.com pod Lenny
terms and conditions apply another
question around this idea of
differentiate value and just alternative
approaches is there's a uh certain
previous guest who was very big on
creating uh category being extremely
important and that potentially being the
only way to build a legendary business I
know you have a different perspective on
that because in theory if you go that
direction there's no alternative it's
like we're the one what's your take on
on that well well so here's so here's a
few things so one obviously creating a
category is not the only way to create a
legendary business because the vast
majority of legendary businesses did not
create the categories that they're in so
Google did not create search Facebook
did not create social network like I
mean there's there's so many of them
it's actually more of an exception to
the rule that the company is creating a
category than the other way around so so
I think it's a bit disingenuous to say
the only way you know it is a way to
build a big business no question about
that but it is absolutely not the only
way in fact it is it you know it's it's
not the most common way but it is a way
and it does work so that's one thing the
second thing is that category creation
is interesting like most companies if
you look at their at their Arc um they
did not even the category creators that
are successful they did not start out as
category creators so they started out as
a niche play in an existing category and
that's because that's generally the
easiest way to get traction for a
company early because what is the job of
the market category the job of a market
category is to help answer the question
like what is this thing all about if I'm
positioning in an existing category I
can say well I'm CRM for very small
businesses that was salesforce's initial
positioning I didn't have to explain to
you what a CRM was that already existed
there was already billion doll company
in that space we know what a CRM is and
I could say we're CRM for very small
businesses the reason you can use it
this very small business is we don't
have any software so you don't have to
have an IT department to babysit it it's
fantastic so most companies start there
now what happens is is that if you
become the dominant player in that space
which again category creation folks talk
about this like no category creator has
ever lost the market in fact most
category creators L the market like what
happened to Myspace what happened to ask
GES it didn't work out so good for them
most category creators actually get
overtaken by fast followers so if we
look at the CRM Market SEO was the big
dominant player there and now they're
not so now we've got Salesforce once
you're the dominant player in that
market a cool move to do is to actually
extend the boundaries of the category so
that you can continue to grow and most
of the category creation examples we see
are companies that when they were 200
300 4 00 million Revenue dominating
their
space then decided to move the goalpost
and say well actually now we're we're
expanding into all these other areas and
we're going to call this category
something and that's what it is and
there's loads of examples of that like
you know qualtrix for example is a
company that a lot of people talk about
very successful category creation well
they were survey software up until there
were 300 million Revenue just like
everybody else in an existing category
so that got them there and that worked
just fine oh well once we're dominating
it now we can say it's whatever it is
customer experience software whatever it
is um snowflake another good example
like data warehousing in the cloud they
were that like data warehousing an
existing Market we data warehousing for
the cloud that is not category creation
and that took them all the way up to the
point where they were about to go public
and now their cloud data which is their
attempt to expand and say well it's not
just data warehousing it's actually data
lakes and a lot of you know all other
data stuff and so that's a smart move
for them because they're now very well
in that space you know I I'm not saying
category creation is a bad thing there
are examples of company that came right
out of the gate and successfully created
a category and then survived to own the
category longer term but a more common
thing that happens is that the company
does the hard work of creating the
category and exactly the moment where
the category starts to take hold fast
follower can come in with fresh funding
and a lot of it and and learn from all
your mistakes and come come in and knock
you off the off the peak right when
you're right when you're you think you
made it so I think category creation is
you know again it's good like it it
works but I think we have to be very
careful when we're thinking about doing
that at an early stage business or a
business that isn't already dominating
the category that they're in it's much
more common to see companies come in
shave off a piece of the market dominate
that and then successfully Branch out
it's What Jeffrey Moore called bowling
pin strategy almost all successful
companies follow bowling pin strategy
wait what is that let's touch that touch
on that oh yeah you remember think it's
funny how many times I've talked about
bowling pin strategy in the last two
months so this comes from a bunch of
work that was done around um the way
Innovation gets adopted blah blah so
there's a bunch of research done on this
stuff but you know and I'm going to
misquote it because Jeffrey Moore stuff
I've been reading it for decades but
bowling pin strategy goes like this the
easiest way to take over a great big
Market is to Define a segment of the
market that is underserved by the market
leader and so if you think about a bunch
of bowling pins we're going to circle
around the lead pin which is this little
piece of the market that's easy for us
to go get and the the market leader
probably doesn't care about it and so we
knock over that pin and knocking over
that pin enables us to get to the three
pins rate beside it and so now I'm
established here as a beach head and I
can go get the next three pins I'm going
to knock those over and eventually I get
big enough to challenge the market
leader and then I overtake them so the
example for my early career was I worked
at this company we were we thought we
were enterprise software we narrowed it
down to CRM for investment Banks and so
we literally Drew bowling pins for our
investor and said lead pin is CRM for
investment Banks once we knock that over
then we're going to go to retail banking
then we're going to be CRM for Banking
and then once we knock that over we're
going to go to Insurance then we're
going to be CRM for financial services
once we knock knock that over then we're
going to be a great big company and
we're going to challenge SEO to be CRM
for enterprise software instead we got
acquired by SE for like a billion bucks
but whatever so most companies if you
look at the history of them they
actually start that way and so yeah if
we just fast forwarded to when they were
million we could say category creation
is the only thing to do but it's like
well what happened before then that was
something different awesome let's come
back to your framework I'm looking at
the of bullet points so we've covered a
lot of this already actually so there's
the Insight where you help them
understand what's happening in the world
and what's changing and why this is
important then you talk about what the
alternative approaches might be pros and
cons then there's this third step which
we haven't talked about yet which is
sharing the perfect world
characteristics of a perfect solution
can you talk a bit about that and why
that's important so this is the
conclusion of the setup phase
so you know if I'm help Scout for
example the conclusion is you know we
say look like you really want customer
Success software that's you know that's
as easy to use as an inbox you're never
going to outgrow it but it was built
from the ground up to be to deliver an
amazing service and so it's this part of
the pitch where we actually get
agreement with the customer that we are
aligned in terms of our point of view on
the universe so it's where I say okay
we've had our little discussion about
the pros and cons of the other
Alternatives and we say so look so are
you with me man like can we all agree
that a really good solution for you
would have a b and c and and the
customer is either like yeah right or
they're not and so if they're right with
you on this definition of the perfect
world Then I then I've got you like I've
already won the deal and I haven't even
talked about us yet because the way I've
set it up I'm the only one that can
deliver that so if you say right all I
got to do is prove that I can do that
and get you over the hurdle that it's
possible for you to adopt it sounds
sounds too easy but yeah I mean lure
them in if all of this was easy Lenny we
would be on a beach drinking out of a
coconut oh man let's let's make it
happen um okay so that's the setup what
do you call the second part again uh the
it's it's the follow through which is
really focused on differentiated value
so in the second part the first step is
usually we introduce our stuff which is
where the the the market category is
important so you know we come in and we
say okay can we agree that a really good
solution should tick these boxes yes
okay good now let's talk about us okay
so you know we believe that that's why
we build what we build so here I am I'm
Health Scout we're customer service
software for dig digital businesses or
what you know whatever our Market
category is so we introduce it just to
get people straight in their mind about
what it is and then we move to here's
the value here's how we do it if we
think about a typical sales call like
let's say a sales call is half an hour
45 minutes I would expect to spend more
than half of the time in the sales call
in this differentiated value phase so if
we're doing a demo that's the demo and
we're saying okay step one let me show
you how we do this right so easy to use
as an inbox here's the features you know
never have to outgrow it here's the
features delivers amazing customer
experience here's the features and so
that's where we're doing you know we're
getting to the meat of what you thought
you were getting when you clicked on the
button that said give me a demo
so that's what we're doing there and
then we end with these three little
pieces one is generally I got to show
you some proof that I can do what I say
I can do so if if I'm claiming this
thing delivers an amazing customer
experience how do I prove that well I
can prove it by other customers saying
it was amazing that's one way to prove
it if I had some independent third party
you know data that proved whatever I was
claiming I could show that there too but
a lot of times what we're doing is we're
like let me show you how this worked in
a company that used our stuff so this
what the before looked like they did
this thing here's the after and so
customer case study is usually a good
way to do that but there's usually a
step called proof which is I showed you
the value now here's the proof that I
can actually deliver on that value and
it's not just me blowing
smoke and then the step after that then
is this optional objection step where
they say oh yeah sounds good but it is
never going to go for it or
sounds good but maybe it's going to be
too expensive or something and so you're
going to handle that objection as best
as you can and then you finish with the
ask which is you
know whatever whatever the next step in
your sales process is so if it's you
know hey well this you know so what we
have to do to get a deal cooking here
like do do we have to get it involved
does it need to see it would you like us
to come in and present with you with it
or do you want me to just help you you
know work on some stuff for it like it's
whatever your next step in sales
processes awesome so let me read through
this just to have it all suly here in
case people are taking notes or trying
to remember this stuff so there's the
setup there's the follow through within
the setup you have the Insight the
alternative approaches pros and cons and
the perfect world and then you introduce
your product talk about the
differentiated value share the proof of
why it works potentially handle
objections silent objections and then
the ask of what comes next that's right
that's it in terms of knowing if this is
working and if you're differentiated
value works or if your Insight Works do
you have kind of a heris of a success
rate that feels right like how often
should this work for you to feel like I
think we have it well so generally if
the sales pitch isn't working it's
because the positioning was weak and so
companies that jump straight to building
the new sales pitch without going back
and really making sure that they really
nailed the differentiated value who
knows maybe it works maybe it doesn't
and a lot of times it doesn't I think
and so in the work I do with my clients
we go all the way back to the beginning
so we go right back to Le let's work on
the positioning first now if I've got
the smartest people from the company in
the room and we've done enough deals
that we're pretty knowledgeable about
how customers buy and what they like and
what they don't know if I've got the
senior executive team in the room and
they've got a reasonable amount of
customer experience we can pretty much
feel good that the positioning we come
up with if we're following a process
will be good then it's just a matter of
taking that positioning mapping it to
the sales pitch and then going to test
it so I think there's a bunch of things
in testing that are really important so
one is we absolutely need sales involved
in building the pitch if we don't have
sales involved in building the pitch the
pitch is never going to stick like the
rule with sales reps is even if they
don't like their current pitch they're
comfortable with the current pitch and
they know it and they memorized it and
they have a little joke they tell on
slide three so they're not going to give
up the current pitch without a fight so
you know you got to get Sales Management
involved in building a new pitch and
then I would never just build a new
pitch and then heave it over the wall
and say good luck
Chu because what'll happen is they'll
come up with all kinds of excuses why
they can't use this pitch instead what
you do is you take your best sales rep
your best one and you you bring your
best sales rep over and you train them
on the new pitch like they got to Lear
they got to learn it they got to pitch
it to you pitch it to the head of sales
we do a bunch of repetition on that and
then we have that rep test the pit
with qualified prospects so we don't go
to existing customers they've already
been polluted with the old positioning
in the old pitch and this needs to work
with a qualified Prospect so let's do it
in the way it was intended we're going
to take qualified prospects and work
that new pitch with them usually what
we'll do is a test period where after
every pitch we'll huddle and say what
worked what didn't work maybe that word
is tripping people up maybe we need to
move this slide from here to here and so
you we'll tune it and then after we've
done a bunch of pitches one of two
things happens and so in in this test
structure I am very much relying on the
expertise of my best rep to know what's
good so after the best rep is
comfortable with the pitch done a bunch
of pitches we've twizz it at some point
the rep will say okay I think we're done
you know optimizing this pitch and I'm
not going back to the old pitch I'm
sticking with this pitch because I think
this one works better an experienced
sales rep will know that whether the
pitch is better than the old pitch if
you give them the opportunity to feel
comfortable with it work with it a bit
and and pitch a bunch of new prospects
with it so if the if your best sales rep
says oh this is way better than the old
pitch I can just feel it from the way
people react to it and the number of
times we've been able to convert people
over into actual opportunities from a
first call then what you do is at that
point I call that pass so then we take
that rep we can film them doing the
pitch uh for training and then we can
take that rep go back to the rest of the
sales team and have that rep sell
everybody else on it so that rep goes
back and says listen up people you're
stupid if you're using that old pitch
which sucks this new pitch is way better
trust me I'm the best rep on this whole
team by the way here's the list of deals
I have cooking in the pipeline that I
got used in this deck you should go do
it and I'm going to teach you how to do
it now I got sales teaching sales
instead of marketing sort of throwing
something over the wall and crossing
their fingers and saying hey I hope this
works what we should see is an immediate
uplift in what happens after first call
so most of the time what that is is we
get a higher percentage of deals
converting into opportunities after that
first substantive calls sometimes
depending on the quality of the pipeline
we had coming in we're actually
disqualifying more but sometimes that's
a good thing but what we should see is
an immediate uptick it's stuff coming
into the pipeline it's a neat trick to
pull when like like especially right now
when everybody's budgets are really
tight and you're just trying to squeeze
more juice out of the lemon it's a
really easy way to get some more juice
out of the pipeline just go in tighten
up your positioning tighten up that
sales pitch and we can have instant
impact with that because we could roll
that out in a couple of weeks and and
start getting better deals flowing
through the pipeline because these
customer are understanding your value
better understanding why to pick you
better it's just easy low hanging fruit
to do when it when the economy is bad to
give people a sense of maybe how easy
that might be how long would you suggest
people spend on maybe tweaking their
positioning and then also on this pilot
like how much total time could could it
take to potentially significantly
increase sales yeah so in the the
customers that I work with when we do
the positioning stuff the positioning
stuff takes a week like we're beginning
and we're done in a week like we're all
about speed on this thing we're trying
to get the thing happening fast so we're
in and out on the positioning in a week
it might take you like it depends on the
company like the bigger the company the
slower this is but some big companies
are actually quite fast and if you're
motivated it doesn't it shouldn't take
long for us to take that pitch and make
it real then we got to find a rep train
the rep and then how long it takes us to
test it really depends on how much deal
flow you've got so if you're working on
Monster deals and you don't actually get
that many qualified prospects to pitch
that might take few weeks but if you've
got a lot of prospects coming through
the door and you can get through this PR
fairly quickly so I've had companies do
it start to finish we got new pitch out
the door and people using it in two
weeks that's about as fast as you can
get it done most folks I would say take
about a month cool that is very
sometimes you're like IBM and who knows
when you'll get to it right but uh but
but most folks could get through it if
everybody's motivated we can get it out
and have it running in a month you
mentioned marketing and earlier you said
that marketing is involved in this
process and some way what's your advice
to just how to involve marketing where
they fit in yeah so usually marketing is
going to end up being the stewards of
the positioning once the positioning is
done so they're going to end up being
like positioning police after this
because a lot of the positioning stuff
is going to take the form of marketing
things so they're you know they're
invested in this so when I was the VP
marketing I was the person that would
instigate the positioning thing let's
get everybody together work on the
positioning and then I would usually be
the person that is driving getting to
sales pitch figured out but it's it's me
and sales and product working together
and then once the sales pitch is done
depending on whether you know the size
of the organization and whether or not
you have sales enablement or somebody
inside sales that can babysit to pitch
usually me and the head of sales would
work on okay this is the pitch and this
is locked down and we're not actually
going to change this pitch until
something happens that requires us to
change the positioning and then that's
when we'll relook at the pitch so we
would look at recertifying the Reps
every quarter on the pitch and all that
kind of stuff and that would be me in
Partnership generally me in partnership
with the head of sales but it depends on
how you do it like I don't think it
really matters who owns it if you have a
good product marketing or
organization good product marketing
organization generally is very concerned
with the positioning and the pitch and
those two things sit in their perview
but depends on how you define it I I
can't wait till you get Airbnb tell us
how this stuff works I mean they're
different because they're consumer but
companies are arranged in all different
ways so you know if if you have product
marketing it looks one way if you don't
it looks another way somebody's got to
kind of be the owner of this thing
though and so we have to decide who
that's G to be just a couple more
questions one is to motivate people to
do this what kind of impact have you
seen at companies that invest this time
and rethink the way they pitch well so
you know people don't like me talk about
Revenue
St usually what what we've seen though
is again the immediate impact is felt in
sales and everybody's very jazzed about
that because sometimes what the worry is
is like we've got this old positioning
and they came in through the pipeline
that way you know so they were exposed
to our marketing somewhere with this old
positioning and then we hit them with
the new positioning with this sales
pitch and aren't they going to be all
like oh you moved my cheese and usually
it ends up not being a problem at all so
usually what we see immediately is an is
an uptick in what's happening in sales
and so I've had a couple of companies
tell me they've doubled the number of
deals that they're bringing from first
sales call to opportunity just by
tightening up the pitch and getting that
going I think that's not unusual I
worked at a company where we did it
in-house we we where I was the VP
marketing and we within two quarters had
doubled the revenue just by tightening
up the pitch just tighten it up all
right Y no big deal y okay so it was a
big shift in positioning though I'll
tell you
that not small most of the time we're
not doing that most of the time it's a
tightening right like we're not saying
oh we used to be this and now we're this
most of the time it's a tightening but
usually like the pitches are so bad I'm
telling you they're so bad that there's
this loow hanging fruit there that if we
could if we could improve it even a
little bit it actually has this big
impact on how much stuff survives down
the pipe
and again if folks want to go deep into
the positioning step your first book
obviously awesome is a great guide and
our first podcast episode goes through
this plus you have a guest post in my
newsletter where you give them a quick
start guide so there's so many tools to
help you through this process tools the
other thought I've had in the back of my
mind as we've been chatting is a
previous guest Andy Rasin has a
different framework feels similar but I
know they're different his framework
starts with a shift that's happened in
the world and then here's who's going to
win in the shift here who's going to
lose and then he kind of goes into why
this product is the best what's your
perspective on that approach versus this
approach and the big differences yeah so
so the thing the thing with that
framework is I do think it works in
certain conditions but but again I think
the conditions might be kind of edgy so
there there's a couple of things that I
think are lacking in that structure for
a sales pitch so the first one is
there's actually no concept of
differentiated value in that pitch which
for me is a giant Miss so in that pitch
it assumes that new is inherently
valuable and old is inherently
bad and sometimes that's true so
sometimes there's just you versus the
status quo and the status quo is some
terrible old thing some Legacy thing or
it's manual processes or something and
you're the only thing out there then you
can get away with that but most of the
time we don't have that like most of the
time there's multiple new ways of doing
something and you just can't say well
I'm the only new and the rest of your
old and
bad so usually I've got to thread the
needle
and so that's the first thing the second
thing is that like for most companies
like if we really understood customer
indecision old is good it's safe it's
not risky and like does anybody ever say
no I'm not gonna buy I'm not gonna buy
Salesforce that's the old stuff like I
just don't think that happens so in a
lot of cases I don't think you can rely
like it's it's lazy to say why this
because it's new and new is better most
of the time the customers are going to
want to know what's better about it like
tell me what the value is that I can't
get anywhere else and you're G to have
to get more specific than just saying
trust me it's new and new is good so
that's the first thing the second thing
is you know this idea of starting with a
trend on the surface it looks kind of
good but the problem is it often the
trend is not unique to you so everybody
else sees the trend too and so you're
starting in a way that any of your
competitors could start the same way so
I I did this for years where I was
taught to do problem solution right and
so we would Define the problem like a
trend so we'd say well the change in the
world like I was selling databases and
I'd say change in the world like data is
exponentially growing you know and it's
like no
we all know that all of my
competitors could say that and all of my
competitors deal with the trend in the
same way so unless you have a
particularly unique take on the trend
well then it's not the trend at all
really is it it's kind of your insight
into the trend so I don't think trend is
that great because it's it's not always
unique to you and ideally what we want
is something that we can say that none
of our competitors can and typically you
know a trend is something outside of our
control it's out in the world and
everybody else can see it too so I don't
think it's great I think that structure
looks a lot like the structure we use in
a VC pitch or in a investor pitch
because we're talking about much longer
timelines and we can say look the world
is really changing and 10 years from now
there's going to be chaos and
destruction and the only one standing is
us and you know therefore there is no
competition and blah blah blah and
because the time frames are longer and
we're talking about disruption of an
entire Market which is pretty
theoretical we can get away with a lot
of that stuff and investor pitch in fact
we want to go there in investor pitch
sales pitch you know sales pitch is all
about right now sales pitch is like okay
I'm going to exchange my money for right
now like you can't get too far into the
future otherwise all I'm doing is giving
everybody a reason to delay which
they're kind of they're kind of likely
to do anyway because they're indecisive
about what they should do I feel like I
need a a debate version of this podcast
where people come on and I know Well
here here's the thing like that that I
think people should think about when
they're looking at all this stuff
because you know it's it's terribly
confusing if you're trying to figure
this out I you know the one thing I
really dislike about the category
creation folks is they say that's the
only way that you can be successful and
in general that's just not true about
anything like there's lots of ways to do
everything and so I think people should
mess around with stuff and for any of
these Frameworks I think they should
look at it and and see if it works for
them in their situation and maybe it
does maybe it doesn't and I think they
should steal things from wherever they
can steal it and figure out what works
in their own situation like my stuff I
like to think is a starting point like
folks should use it as a starting point
but people shouldn't be slaves to it
like there are lots of things that work
in a market and I think the only thing
that we know for certain is that we
can't say well this is the rule and it
always works like this if it was that
easy again we like this wouldn't be so
hard we wouldn't have podcasts and
newsletters and all kinds of things
trying to figure this stuff
out extremely true well with that we've
reached our very exciting lightning
round are you ready oh yeah lightning
round oh gosh gives me stress okay okay
question number one what are two or
three books that you've recommended most
to other people well that's an easy
question so right now I'm really into
Matt Dixon's work right now which you
know we mentioned him a couple times on
the podcast but mad Dixon's new book
called The jolt effect uh is really
great just because there's all this data
and the things that he discovered with
that data a lot of it sort of go against
the you know what what would we consider
like accepted sales wisdom and so I
think that book is full of Juicy nuggets
and everybody should look at it his
previous book The Challenger sale and
there was a companion book to that
called The Challenger customer those
were also excellent and based on a deep
set of research and those books are
older now but what we see in the jolt of
fact is all the stuff holds true like
all the stuff from the Challenger sale
has not changed in 10 years so I think
those books together are really cool
the other one that I always recommend is
like the original book on positioning
which is the book by Rees and trout
positioning the battle for your mind
like you know I have my copy of it is
like is like doged I probably read that
book a hundred times and I still see
stuff in that book that I didn't see
before so I think if you really want to
go deep on this positioning stuff my
book is like the howto book their book
is like the what is it in the first
place book and I think everybody that's
interested in positioning should go read
that amazing by the way I have your
first book somewhere behind me there I
don't know where it is but but it's
there I got mine right here so I can do
this gag there it is the new one there's
the old one the YouTube YouTube audience
can see that trick you've learned second
question what is a favorite recent movie
or TV show that you've really enjoyed oh
man I I'm gonna get in trouble for this
but so um so
um uh you know you know bong Juno this
the guy that did the movie parasite yep
so before parasite there was this book
called this this movie called snow
piercer it's really old I think it came
out I've seen that was that have you
seen it so I love this movie so much so
recently I went on a train trip with my
dad and before I went to the train trip
you know we got talking about trains and
and then and then you know we all had to
go watch Snow piercer again like me and
my daughter watching snow piercer we're
really into this
movie and it's funny when it came out I
was working at a startup and the CEO
came and said seen any good movies
lately and I was like oh man you got to
see this movie Snow beer and he went on
a first date with a
woman and he came back the next day and
he was so mad he was like not just kind
of mad he was really mad at me he was
like that was the worst movie I've ever
seen I was like dude you should have
told me you're were going on a date I
didn't
know yeah that is my experience with
that movie it's I did not enjoy it but I
think you have to go into polarizing
like it's polarizing you either you
either think it's amazing or you're like
that was terrible what did I just watch
explains your taste in movies we learn
we learned a lot about you April that
movie is uh something
else oh man did you see parasite that
was amazing that was amazing very
different not not what I imagined I
didn't realize it was the same person oh
yeah W all right okay cool that's two
movies for people to watch I'm curious
how people be
warn oh man I still think about that
movie Sometimes next question what is a
favorite interview question you like to
ask people that you're interviewing
usually this is for like when you're
hiring so whatever this thing this comes
up for yeah so you know back when I was
running teams internally like back in my
VP marketing days I felt like a lot of
marketing folks came with with a certain
amount of bad habits particularly
startup marketing folks would you know
they it's a bit of the Wild West in
marketing and so sometimes they come in
and you get into somebody new and they
be really smart but they learned
something at the previous company that
you're like please never do that here
it's not going to work here and so I I
kind of developed a thing where I was
just looking for attitude like you know
were you enthusiastic did you look you
know are you super into what we're doing
here and I can teach you pretty much
anything the only thing I can't teach
you is persuasive writing and I think
that's a learnable skill like I think
people can learn how to do persuasive
writing I just don't have time to teach
it to you myself and so I used to give
people a writing test so I'd say look
like think think of something you bought
recently and write me two paragraphs and
just sell me on
and I used to love that test because
people can either do it or they
can't and there's just so much stuff we
end up doing in product marketing and
marketing that involves a little bit of
writing that it's just it's kind of a
foundational skill and if you if you
don't have that like that was the one
thing I couldn't teach you wow that is
fascinating I've never heard of that as
an interview question and I love it feel
like product manager I stole it from a
company that made me do it before I got
hired and I was like this is a really
smart thing I'm stealing
my thing was I got anxiety and I
couldn't I couldn't decide what product
to write about and I had literally just
bought a new pair of running shoes so I
wrote two paragraphs about my my new
Brooks distance running
shoes but it was good I got the job that
is an excellent segue to our next
question which is is there a favorite
product you've recently discovered that
you really like right now I'm kind of
into like
uh I don't even know how to describe
this category of things but things that
are kind of low Tech but but are awesome
and so one of the category of things
that I really love right now is I'm
really into fountain pens I don't know
if you ever written with a fountain pen
I know what they are and so there's this
company Lamie they're based in Germany
and they make the world's greatest
fountain pens they're beautiful they're
amazing some of them are really
expensive if you want to spend a lot of
money on a pen you can but they have
this one called the allstar which is not
an expensive pen it's 20 30 bucks I mean
it may be expensive for a pen but it's
not so much money that you wouldn't feel
bad if you lost
it and so lamb me Allstar that's my
that's my that's my great product lately
I don't have one right here I should it
be a great it'd be a great prop to pick
it up but I actually don't have my bag
here and it's in my bag but let me I'll
start you Google it these are beautiful
pens and then if you haven't written
with a fountain pen it's it takes a
minute to get used to it but then it's
like gosh it just feels great like
you'll never write with a ballpoint pen
again I was going to ask is it the feel
of the writing that you really enjoy
about it feel totally different yeah
amazing I use Muji pens I don't know if
you know these pens oh yeah these are
these are actually really good they're
like roller ball pens roller ball pen
very good but um but not as good as the
fountain the Muji pen is pretty good
yeah and then do you have to dip it in
ink and stuff how does that work no you
actually they they either come with a
little cartridge that you stick in or if
you do you know if you feel bad about
the environment you don't want to be
throwing at cartridges all the time
there's a refillable cartridge so you
basically just stick it in the thing go
and it sucks it up and yeah you don't
dip it in ink that would be crazy I
can't take that on the airplane man
confiscate your ink all right uh
questions get a little more challenging
potentially or really easy do you have a
favorite life motto that you like to
repeat to yourself you like to share
with people they find useful to come
back to my thing lately is
like like and maybe this is just like an
old old person thing but my thing lately
is like nothing's a big deal nothing's a
big deal
nothing's a big deal and so you you'll
have stuff like that you think is a
really is a really big deal positive or
negative and you'll be like wow if this
thing happened to be so great and then
it happens and you're like yeah it's
pretty great but you know things are
good otherwise or it'll be the opposite
like oh if this thing happened to be so
bad then it happens and you're like that
wasn't that
bad and so I don't know if this is good
or bad but lately I'm in this zone of
like I'm in this kind of Chill Zone Zone
where I'm like nothing's a big deal man
everything's cool that super resonates
and as much as you say that to yourself
it's still hard to convince yourself of
that sometimes right but that is a
really good motto I'm going to steal
that myself I kind of say that to myself
often in a different way
yeah what is the most valuable lesson
your mom or your dad taught
you yeah you know it's funny because
it's a little bit related to that so my
dad ran a business um so I I grew up in
a really small town and uh and my dad
and it's Cottage Country in Canada and
so my dad ran the local like toys for
tourists like boats and motorcycles and
ATVs and that sort of thing and he ran
that business for years and years he
sold it a few years back when he retired
but you know it's a neat thing to grow
up in entrepreneurial family because you
kind of see there highs and lows you
know like the business is really good
then the business was really bad and you
know and then we were all broke and then
the business was good and we were not
broke you know so there was there was
this thing and my dad used to always
kind of have this attitude of like you
just got to grind it out like you're
just going to grind it out there's going
to be good stuff there's going to be bad
stuff but the key is to just keep going
like just keep going and so he ran that
business for whatever said 30 40 years I
don't know his motto is the home of Fun
Since
71 so he started in 71 I think he sold
it three or four years ago so a long
time and you know and it all worked out
good in the end and so I don't know I
think there's something cool about
growing up in a family where you can see
the sort of highs and lows and then
again be sort of like everything's you
know just we're just grinding it out
over here like nothing's a big deal it's
clear where all that comes from now yeah
final question you do a lot of traveling
you do a lot of speaking you go to a
bunch of cities I'm curious just what is
your favorite either city that you go to
that maybe people may not know about or
venue that you speak at you know it's
such a cliche but but I love Paris like
I just love love it but for me for me
Paris is like is like a is like a
particular Vibe so when I was in
university I did an exchange when I was
in engineering and I did third year
engineering at a school just outside of
Paris and so I spent the whole year
there learned a bit of French my French
was pretty good at the end my French is
really bad now but what I so so I kind
of get Paris I like Paris and so when I
go to Paris I just have the best time
like you know I have my set of
restaurants I want to go to I have my
handful of places I want to go shopping
I like you know put my butt down in a
cafe look at the beautiful people drink
my nice coffee like I just I just really
dig the whole vibe of Paris so you know
and people are starting to know that now
so like French companies will call me
and they'll say do we get to Paris
discount we hear you like it come in
here and I and I want and I go
okay now they're gonna now this is there
a great product there's a great prodct
product management conference there
called La product
conference uh run by these folks at TGA
shout out to TGA so I've been there a
number of times for their conferences
and they do an amazing job and the venue
is really great it changes around but
last year the last time I went there
which was two years ago it was in an old
theater in pigal absolutely beautiful
and um you know that was that was a
pretty great venue in a great city with
a great conference so yeah shout out to
French people oh man sounds dreamy Paris
I see how that could be a favorite April
we I think we accomplished everything we
were hoping to accomplish I think
everyone that has listened to this
podcast is going to be better at
pitching and selling it feels like even
if they take one element of this
framework say starting with an Insight
or focusing a different Shain value will
make them better and so I'm proud of us
thank you so much for doing this to
final questions where can folks find
your line if they want to reach out and
how can listeners be useful to you yeah
so uh where could be people find me I'm
April dunf for.com you know the only
social media I'm doing these days is
LinkedIn um I'm a bit social mediate out
you know I'm experimenting a little on
threads and Instagram but LinkedIn is a
good place to find me if you just want
low lift way to follow my stuff but I'm
doing all the things now Lenny I got a
podcast it's called positioning with
April Dunford I got a newsletter that's
also called positioning you can find
that if you go to it's it's on substacks
you can find it there otherwise
april.com
books and you can sign up there but
those are kind of the big things and
then there's the books obviously like if
you want to learn more about this stuff
everything I know is in the book like
there isn't stuff that I know that isn't
in the book To be honest amazing and
then how can listeners be useful to you
just check out those things I mean I
guess so like you know what like I'm in
this phase I you know I think I'm feel
again I think it's the old age thing
like I'm I'm in this kind of
philosophical phase where I'm trying to
I'm not going to be doing this
forever and what I'm trying to do right
now is get everything that's used ful
out of my head and and out in the world
before I'm done and so right now I'm
very focused on delivering useful things
for other people like like I I didn't
think I needed to write a book about
sales pitches but then I got the idea in
my head like everybody's sales pitch is
so bad and there isn't a book on how to
build a sales pitch and I'm not saying
mine's the world's greatest thing but
it's better than
nothing so I this this is what I'm
trying to do right now I'm trying to be
useful to other people because because
you know pretty soon I'm not going to be
doing anything I think is the idea so
yeah Arnold Schwarz and anger's new book
is called be useful and I feel like
that's the perfect description of how to
be successful and especially in the work
that we do of just helping people but I
I always I keep coming back to that just
be useful I mean this I think this's a
really important thing like when I wrote
the first book people started writing
back to me and saying oh you know your
book was so great and my reflex action
was to say oh I'm glad you enjoyed it
but then I kind of stopped myself and I
was like you know what I don't actually
care if you enjoyed it like this isn't
this isn't
entertainment I'm actually trying to
create something that's useful so what I
really want is for people to read the
stuff and come back and say you know
that was useful we were struggling with
this thing and that kind of unlocked
something for me and that was useful and
that's what I'm trying to do right now
April thank you so much for being here
this was amazing thanks so much it's
always good to be here always good to
have you here and we might do a V3 when
you do a third book If you ever achieve
not Happ it
okay all right well bye
everyone thank you so much for listening
if you found this valuable you can
subscribe to the show on Apple podcast
Spotify or your favorite podcast app
also please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast you can
find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lenp podcast.com see
you in the next
episode